## First Responders Companion App (Beta)

This organization consists of two repositories:

1. [Frontend](https://github.com/First-Responders-Companion/front-end)
2. [Backend](https://github.com/First-Responders-Companion/back-end)

Both of these repositories are primarily written in TypeScript. The Frontend uses the React framework, whereas the Backend uses Node.js and Express frameworks. The chosen database for this project is MongoDB.

A bit of history on this project: it is a simplified version of a larger project called the "First Responders Companion" application, which consists of 50+ features. As I'm not permitted to publicly share the entirety of that project, I've extracted three main features: login, register, and missing complaints. 

Login and register functionalities are fairly straightforward. However, missing complaints require clarification. Originally, the idea was that when a person is missing and considered in an emergency situation by their family or friends, they can use the application to file a missing complaint. This complaint is then assigned to a nearby police officer. An intelligence report is generated by the system based on the information provided, aiding the police officer in locating the missing person and eventually closing the case.

In this "beta" application, I've simplified the process by removing the complexity of various roles interacting with the application and generating intelligence reports. Instead, the system allows citizens to create, view, and close missing complaints. This simplification was made to showcase most CRUD operations while reducing complexity.

Download the [demo video here](/First-Responders-Companion-Beta-Demo.mov).

Bonus: Please check out my [web application deployment repository](https://github.com/sankalpgunturi/web-application-deployment) if you want to learn how to architect a system for web deployment. You can find Terraform code that I wrote to deploy them.
